content/english/blog/the-dying-tree.md, before:

---
title: "The Dying Tree"
slug: 'the-dying-tree'
meta_title: ""
description: "this is meta description"
date: 2020-12-13T05:00:00Z
image: "/images/2020_12_13-Yellowbox_Tree.jpeg"
categories: ["landscaping", "council"]
author: "Michael"
tags: ["landscaping"]
summary: "We recently had to remove a dead tree from our property after confirming with two arborists that it was beyond saving. While it was a tough decision, the tree posed safety risks and couldn’t be revived."
draft: false
---

Dealing with a dying tree. When we first bought the block, this old tree was already showing signs of decline - with it's lifeless limbs and bare canopy. I kept an eye on it for a few months but it became increasingly clear it was in distress and not good health. While we loved the idea of keeping it for it's shade, birdlife, and character after speaking with both a slab engineer and a telephone call with a arborist it had crossed the line from "rustic charm" to "safety hazard".

{{< image src="images/landscaping/IMG_2545.JPEG" caption="A healthy Yellowbox tree on our neighbours property, an example what our tree _doesn't_ look like" position="center" command="fill" option="q100" class="img-fluid" title="Healthy Yellowbox Tree" webp="false" >}}

#### Why We Had to Remove It

I first spoke with an arborist over the phone, describing the tree's condition and sending through a photo. He called me back almost immediately and said, "Yeah, that tree’s well and truly gone." I tried to get him onsite for a proper evaluation, but he was adamant it wasn’t necessary. Still not entirely convinced, I did a bit more Googling and contacted a second arborist who agreed to meet me in person. After inspecting it onsite, he confirmed the same verdict—that it was beyond saving. He even pointed out nearby trees of the same species to show what a healthy one _should_ look like. The contrast was pretty clear.

It became clear that point that the tree had become a liability and had to go.

#### How We Removed It

We had Paul from [Red Gum Tree Services](https://redgumtreeservices.com.au/) create the arborist report/letter for council and completed the felling of the tree. Took Paul and his crew about ~6 hours start to finish.

- [View the arborist report/letter (PDF)](/documents/Report_Red-Gum-Tree-Services_Lot102_DP128670.pdf)
- [The Yass Valley Council process we followed, completing a Form 16 - Dead, dying or dangerous tree](https://www.yassvalley.nsw.gov.au/Our-Services/Strategic-Planning/Heritage-and-Environment/Tree-Removal)

#### Image Gallery

{{< gallery dir="images/landscaping/the-dying-tree" class="" width="600" height="600" quality="100" webp="true" command="Fit" option="" zoomable="true" >}}

Commit message:

Updated gallery handling with custom shortcut

content/english/blog/the-dying-tree.md, after:

---
title: "The Dying Tree"
slug: 'the-dying-tree'
meta_title: ""
description: "this is meta description"
date: 2020-12-13T05:00:00Z
image: "/images/2020_12_13-Yellowbox_Tree.jpeg"
categories: ["landscaping", "council"]
author: "Michael"
tags: ["landscaping"]
summary: "We recently had to remove a dead tree from our property after confirming with two arborists that it was beyond saving. While it was a tough decision, the tree posed safety risks and couldn’t be revived."
draft: false
gallery:
  - file: "01.jpeg"
    caption: "Red Gum Tree Services felling the tree."
  - file: "02.jpeg"
    caption: "The freshly cut stump left behind after the tree was removed."
  - file: "03.jpeg"
    caption: "The piles of firewood left over after the tree was removed."
  - file: "05.jpeg"
    caption: "This branch that Jess is standing will eventually die and fall."
---

Dealing with a dying tree. When we first bought the block, this old tree was already showing signs of decline - with it's lifeless limbs and bare canopy. I kept an eye on it for a few months but it became increasingly clear it was in distress and not good health. While we loved the idea of keeping it for it's shade, birdlife, and character after speaking with both a slab engineer and a telephone call with a arborist it had crossed the line from "rustic charm" to "safety hazard".

{{< image src="images/landscaping/IMG_2545.JPEG" caption="A healthy Yellowbox tree on our neighbours property, an example what our tree _doesn't_ look like" position="center" command="fill" option="q100" class="img-fluid" title="Healthy Yellowbox Tree" webp="false" >}}

#### Why We Had to Remove It

I first spoke with an arborist over the phone, describing the tree's condition and sending through a photo. He called me back almost immediately and said, "Yeah, that tree’s well and truly gone." I tried to get him onsite for a proper evaluation, but he was adamant it wasn’t necessary. Still not entirely convinced, I did a bit more Googling and contacted a second arborist who agreed to meet me in person. After inspecting it onsite, he confirmed the same verdict—that it was beyond saving. He even pointed out nearby trees of the same species to show what a healthy one _should_ look like. The contrast was pretty clear.

It became clear that point that the tree had become a liability and had to go.

#### How We Removed It

We had Paul from [Red Gum Tree Services](https://redgumtreeservices.com.au/) create the arborist report/letter for council and completed the felling of the tree. Took Paul and his crew about ~6 hours start to finish.

- [View the arborist report/letter (PDF)](/documents/Report_Red-Gum-Tree-Services_Lot102_DP128670.pdf)
- [The Yass Valley Council process we followed, completing a Form 16 - Dead, dying or dangerous tree](https://www.yassvalley.nsw.gov.au/Our-Services/Strategic-Planning/Heritage-and-Environment/Tree-Removal)

#### Image Gallery

{{< gallery-opt dir="images/landscaping/the-dying-tree" >}}
